[Music]
you step into an elevator it starts
going down fast what would happen if you
jumped right when it started going down
with the ceiling hit your head ouch do
you stay suspended in the air while the
elevator plummets down now let's examine
the elevator problem one step at a time
first consider a scale you know the kind
of scale you weigh yourself on when you
step on scale to weigh yourself there
are two forces involved one gravity
pulls you down to the scale pushes you
up what you didn't know a scale could
push of course it can if it didn't push
up on you you would go crashing through
the floor this upward push is called the
normal force and yes it is normally
there since you're just standing there
on the scale you're not moving therefore
you're not accelerating Newton's second
law of motion net force equals mass
times acceleration tells us that if the
acceleration equals zero
the net force must equal zero which
means that the force of gravity pulling
you down must be equal to the force the
scale pushing you up now let's suppose
you're standing on that scale in an
elevator at first the elevator is
standing still so you and the scale are
standing still the two forces on you are
equal and opposite but you can read how
hard the scale is pushing by looking at
it we call that your weight then the
elevator starts falling down you and the
scale are in the elevator so you are
falling down to faster and faster that
means you are accelerating downward now
there is a net force in the same
direction as acceleration
down since gravity hasn't changed that
must mean the scale isn't pushing up as
hard so the scale is reading a smaller
number the faster the elevator
accelerates the less the scale pushes up
but if you jumped
would you stop falling with the elevator
hit your head
well what's pulling the elevator down
gravity is gravity pulling on you of
course so your relative position in the
elevator will stay the same the ceiling
will only hit you if you can jump up to
the ceiling now consider what would
happen if the elevator accelerated
upward and even more frightening if
someone snuck in and cut the cable
holding the elevator what would happen
then think about it